# housing_price_predictions

The goal of the project is to predict house prices from the Ames (Iowa, USA) housing dataset. The dataset contains detailed description of 1000 houses. The features not only include the attributes of the houses but also include information such as the type of land the house was built on, description of the neighborhood and proximity to railroads and parks.

The project utilizes pre-processing techniques such as outlier analysis, data imputation for missing values and ordinal and nominal encoding for categorical variables. We then perform correlation analysis for feature selection. Next, we test a variety of regression models and find that XGBoost performs the best (average R^2 score of 0.86 on 5-fold cross-validation). We then fine-tune the model using grid search cross-validation. We then train the fine-tuned model on the entire dataset and test it on an unseen test set.

We also looked at the most important features predicting housing prices. We find that _OverallQual_ - "Rates the overall material and finish of the house" - and _ExterQual_ - "Evaluates the quality of the material on the exterior" - were the 2 most correlated features with sale prices. For XGBoost, _GrLivArea_ described as "Above grade (ground) living area square feet" and _LotArea_ described as "Lot size in square feet" were the 2 most important features. In the end, we plot a figure demonstrating overfitting vs underfitting using the maximum depth of the XGBoost trees as a proxy for model complexity.
